[Transcript missing]
A normal audio disc is referred
to as a Redbook standard.
This is the format of most
standard audio CDs and it
contains up to about 99 tracks.
The Bluebook standard defines
the Enhanced Music CD,
it's also referred to as CD Extra,
and it's a specification for a
multi-session press disc comprising audio
and data sessions recorded separately.
Essentially,
the audio and data tracks are recorded
in separate sessions so there's no
overlap between the audio and data and
also prevents the data tracks from being
played on home Hi-Fi stereo equipment.
In the old days,
before multi-session discs were a
standard for creating Enhanced CDs,
CD-ROM data was often recorded
in the same session as the audio,
meaning that audio CD players,
your home CD player or your car
CD player could recognize a data
track and be able to play it,
which is a terrible user experience.
I've seen several older
Enhanced CDs wear a CD.
The Bluebook standard was a CD player,
the data track was actually track one.
So you buy a CD,
you pop it in your CD player and you
hear a horrible screeching noise.
Of course,
they usually tell you that on the sleeve,
but it's not exactly an
ideal user experience.
On a Bluebook multi-session disc,
the first session is audio.
It can contain up to 98
tracks and after the session,
the audio has been recorded,
a second session,
the data is burnt onto the disc.
Typically,
the second session is a hybrid session
that contains both the Mac and PC data.
And there's also an approximate 27
megabyte lead out and lead in gap
between the audio and data sessions.
The gap is necessary to prevent the
data tracks from being recognized as
audio tracks on standard CD players.
It also adds a significant
real estate space on the disc.
The Enhanced CDs I create
are often for record labels
and media related companies,
so I concentrate on packing as much
media as I can on the second session
after the audio has been finalized.
I usually always need to know precisely
how much audio is going to be included
on the disc in order to gauge the
real estate space I have left.
And real estate space, I'm just literally
talking about megabytes.
We've got 700 megabytes
at maximum to work with,
so if there's 18 tracks at 72 minutes,
that's not much space left.
We always have to plan for the
contingency that we're going
to have to leave something
off if we run out of space.
Always, always, always,
always use video in QuickTime format.
I haven't found any format that
works better on Enhanced CDs.
QuickTime is definitely the best.
I usually use Sorenson 3,
compression 320x240 frame size
and a rate of 1500k per second.
Sometimes we'll push it up to
512x384 frame size and a 2000
or 2500kb per second rate,
but that increases the file size
considerably and some machines
have harder times playing it.
So I'll typically offer the user
a choice to decide between the
two and just leave it up to them.
We've tried encoding at 640x480,
but few machines can
handle it seamlessly.
So we usually stick to
512x384 and 320x240.
Always include standard
web links on Enhanced CDs,
photo galleries, music,
always in QuickTime format,
and an option to sign up for the project
or artist or label's mailing list.
The mailing list information is
interesting because it can be collected
straight off the disc by sending the
information directly from the Enhanced
CD application to a script on the web.
So no browser is necessary.
It's a seamless experience.
You're just watching a video.
You can sign up for an artist
mailing list or do other interactive
things while you're video content.
[Transcript missing]
When I author Enhanced CDs,
I nearly always use Macromedia Director.
It's a great tool,
and I use it to create the
main interfaces and the
portal to the actual content.
Director is really easy to use.
I can hide hidden content with a
standalone projector application and
integrate a lot of different media
components into the director framework.
Just to establish terminology,
I use the term projector
to refer to the interface.
It's basically just a standalone
application that sits on the disk.
If there's a type of media that
someone wants to use on an Enhanced
CD and Director doesn't support it,
chances are there's a plug-in,
there's an extra,
or some script written in lingo
that'll get around it or somehow be
able to import it in there and use it.
The most advantageous reason I've
found to use Director for interactive
Enhanced CDs is its excellent
ability to channel information
in and out of the application.
Database interaction allows
us to handle email collection,
push dynamic content
directly into the interface,
and manage user experience.
We can record and track pretty
much anything we want to about
the user's experience without
disrupting their experience.
It's all handled by
scripts in the back end.
So that's the main reason why I choose
to use Director as a powerful tool
to author Enhanced CDs that require
a lot of interactivity and tracking.
There are some limitations, though,
and if anyone out there
is from Macromedia,
I'd like to just spend a few
minutes on how Director could
be a little bit better.
The biggest problem I have with... Oh,
there we go.
The biggest problem I have with
Director is you have to author
multiple projectors per project.
I'll typically author three
projectors per project,
one for the PC, one for OS 9,
and then one for OS 10.
Flash handles the authoring of
multiple projectors rather seamlessly,
but Director doesn't.
Director does handle many
standard CD-ROM media formats,
so that's a very good thing.
And QuickTime is one of the formats that
usually works flawlessly in Director.
MP3 audio in Director is
often problematic for me.
There's often occasional
distortion things that happen,
especially in the QC process.
MP3 audio sometimes gets cut off.
And the biggest issue, I think,
with Director is the size issue.
When you author a projector interface
with no graphics or content at all,
it takes up a minimum of
two megabytes of space.
When I'm dealing with a 77-minute
audio disk and I need to author
a hybrid Mac and PC session,
on the same 80-minute capacity disk,
that two megabyte space is way
too much for that kind of project.
So it really can mean the
difference of fitting the data on
the disk or not if I use Director.
At this point I want to show you a few
examples of interesting things that
we've been able to do with Director.
And the first example is the
James Bond Die Another Day Enhanced CD.
The CD featured an extensive
photo gallery of all Bond movies,
a dynamic photo gallery
of all the Bond women,
in addition to two video clips,
one from Madonna,
and email collection of course,
and links to other video
content on the web.
The next example is the
Fleetwood Mac Best Of.
This Enhanced CD was definitely
a disk space challenge project.
Somehow we were able to
cram a five minute video,
lyrics to all 36 songs
in the compilation,
full discography, email collection,
web links,
and bonus content onto an audio disc
that was already 70 minutes run time.
The last example was an interesting
example of requiring email registration
to access exclusive content on the web.
It was for the Lord of the Rings,
Fellowship of the Ring Enhanced CD.
It came out about a year and a half ago.
The disc actually featured
practically no content at all.
There wasn't enough time to
put content on the disc itself.
But an exclusive link got you to bonus
web content and access to the content
was given by required email registration.
The site featured several video trailers,
an Enya e-card, wallpaper, stationery,
buddy icons, and more.
Email signups are actually still
being collected off of that
disc even though the Two Towers
has been out for six months.
And I think to date we've
received about 400,000 unique
registrations from that Enhanced CD.
So that was a really good Enhanced CD.
It worked out really well.
The tremendous response from the first
Enhanced CD was a great lead into
the planning of the next release,
the Two Towers.
And a special internet
version was actually prepared.
I believe for the next release.
And it was specifically offered to the
consumers who bought the first one.
Some of the music projects I work on
are distributed all over the world.
And an interesting byproduct
of that is that some discs,
many discs,
often need to be re-authored depending on
chart regulations in foreign countries.
The UK, in particular,
has specific chart regulations.
Only one web link can
be included on a disc,
which is quite limiting.
Video data is limited to 15 minutes,
no more.
And email collection can't
physically appear on the disc
itself without impeding the chances
that the CD will have to chart.
Most other worldwide territories don't
have those stringent restrictions,
but there are some new laws
now that require content to
be approved a little bit more
specifically now than it was before.
Lastly,
I just want to spend a few minutes
going over the QC process for
Enhanced CDs from an operating system
perspective and a user perspective.
After all the content has been assembled
and approved by the content owner,
the fun is really just starting for
me and all the wonderful engineers
who have to sit down and test every
possible user path through every
single screen of the Enhanced CD.
All the functionality has to be
tested from a detailed standpoint
for the user and operating systems,
of course.
And typically, they're tested on every
platform imaginable.
And there are always minor
discrepancies between OS platforms
and sometimes major discrepancies,
sometimes with the media,
a direct or playback error,
an encoding flaw,
or a stupid mistake that I made.
And it's usually the latter.
Just as an example,
it took several days to QC Lincoln Park's
Meteora CD and get it out the door
due to a Windows 98 and OS 9 issue
with a plug-in that I was using
to play the Redbook audio off the
CD inside the director interface.
It took us about four days to get
through that and production death
threats were made in our directions,
but we finally got a solution.
And typically it usually takes
about one to four days to
QC an Enhanced CD entirely.
Depending on how much content there
is and depending on how complex the
back-end components are as well.
Ideally, from a user perspective,
the enhanced CD experience should be
as seamless as possible and not require
any added effort on the user's part.
Generally,
I like to test and make sure the
user has all the components needed to
play all the content on an enhanced
CD before the application launches.
Several checks can be made in the
background without the user being
aware of anything that's going on.
However, the most often scenario is that
the user doesn't have QuickTime and
they're forced to download it.
I'd love to establish a method where
the latest version of QuickTime could
just be automatically installed
without the user having to do anything.
Currently,
I don't place the QuickTime installer
on the disc itself.
Sometimes CDs are out
in the market for three,
four, or five years.
Putting an installer on the disc
creates a problem that it might
be outdated during the time span
that the CD is on the market.
Most of the components we can check
for and automatically update in
the background and Director has a
great way of handling some of those
things with lingo scripts and things
like that so that the user isn't
bothered by having to download a flash
component or something that they need.
This time I want to turn things
over to Naveen who will probably
describe more of the marketing,
tracking, and the benefits that labels
receive from Enhanced CDs and
the future of Enhanced CDs.
[Transcript missing]
John is talking about the premium ECD.
The vast majority of ECDs produced
do not come close to Fleetwood Mac,
Lincoln Park,
or other ECDs that Jon has worked on.
First of all,
to introduce the current state of ECDs,
the ECD is the post-purchase new
media connection with the consumer.
This person took their time to go out
to a record store or buy it online.
This is the one time you really have to
connect with that consumer post-purchase.
It's the time for both the label and
the artist to make the connection.
You know that they're a real fan
because they actually bought the disc.
It's also one of the few parts of
a new media campaign that the label
typically runs that has a quote-unquote
perceived value to the consumer.
I mean, the consumer doesn't really value
the website or value anything
else that the new media department
will typically do at a label.
But the enhanced disc,
by way of a sticker on the
front of the disc or whatnot,
supposedly is supposed to have
some value to the consumer.
And yet, even with these key
aspects of enhanced CDs,
nine times out of ten, they feel rushed.
And they almost never take advantage
of the technology that's currently
available at the time of purchase.
There are a couple of different
types of Enhanced CDs.
Jon primarily was talking about
quote-unquote standard Enhanced CDs,
which are director-built
multimedia pieces that actually
sit on the CD and sometimes
connect with the web or whatnot.
There's another type of Enhanced
CD that Jon also briefly mentioned,
which is more of like a CD being used
as a key to access exclusive content.
For example,
the Lord of the Rings Enhanced
Disc that Jon produced.
Now, the beauty of the key type Enhanced
CD is that for label catalog sales
where the label is not going to put an
Enhanced Disc on a Lionel Richie CD,
they can actually use like
GraceNote technology like CDDB or
whatnot to actually connect
the user via a web interface to
quote-unquote exclusive content.
The problem is that neither of
these methods that are usually
used in the enhanced CDs ever
fulfill their potential.
Typically,
a typical enhanced CD that's produced
by a major label today will have one
or two mediocre quality video clips.
There really are few exceptions.
Jon mentioned some very exceptional
enhanced CDs that were produced
and that rarely is the case.
The versatility of the medium is not
really taken advantage of in any way,
shape, or form.
The video potentially on the disc can be
much higher quality and the beauty of it
is there's no waiting for the consumer to
access the rich content because there's
no need for the internet connection.
The other beauty of Enhanced CDs is
that they can obviously connect directly
with communities and online-related web
content directly from the disc itself,
as Jon was mentioning.
Another really key aspect that labels
fail to take advantage of is the ability
to install artist-branded components such
as screensavers and desktops and whatnot,
which really are extremely
powerful long-term mindshare
branding opportunities they're
really taking advantage of.
So how do labels currently
view Enhanced CDs?
They currently view them as
a pain in the ass to produce.
And as Jon mentioned,
they're a QA nightmare.
And they're often rushed.
I mean, when you're producing a typical
enhanced CD for an artist,
there's so many cooks in the kitchen.
You have to deal with the art
director and the manager of the
artist and the artist himself.
And the media department is
running around like chickens
with their head cut off.
It's just insane.
It's absolutely insane.
So there's often late art delivery.
And there's never really time
to really think about the
next level or think about,
are consumers really going to
use these different components?
And as Jon said, he always has to make
allowances to take media off,
either due to space issues or,
quite honestly,
the asset may not be ready.
And then the labels often ask,
because very few ECDs
are tracked currently,
do people even use these things?
And that's a question that
I get asked personally.
All the time when we approach a
label to produce an enhanced disc
for a given artist or whatnot.
But the funny thing is that the potential
benefits of the Enhanced CD are huge.
Jon was mentioning some of the
quote-unquote anti-piracy capabilities of
Enhanced discs because it has value and
therefore the consumer is going to say,
Oh, I'm not going to go download the
music on Napster or Kazaa or whatever.
I'm just going to go buy the disc
because it has a special video clip.
The reality is that that's
obviously not very true.
But there is significant opportunity
to add things like music videos,
live video, live audio,
collectible extra content
such as AIM icons,
avatars, screen savers,
desktop wallpaper,
and cool database-powered active
desktops that are built in Flash.
In fact,
one thing that we've actually produced,
that was really, really cool,
is we produced the Linkin
Park Meteora Enhanced Disc with Jon.
And we had this really,
really cool screen saver.
This is actually the screen
that the consumer first sees
from the Enhanced Disc when they
go to access the screen saver.
And the screen saver was actually
built in Macromedia Flash.
And it was database-connected.
And it allowed the user
to actually download video
content directly from the net.
And it actually created
almost like an artist.
And it was a branded TV channel.
So it's Linkin Park videos,
24 hours a day.
And then we also had a concept for the
Linkin Park campaign called Newscaster.
Where it was basically Linkin
Park news for the fans,
by the fans.
We actually sent a video crew
out on the road with Linkin Park.
And they shot video.
And we'd pipe it in, you know,
not real time, but we'd pipe it in on the
Linkin Park official website
and through the screen saver.
So, you know,
Linkin Park is a content producer.
So why not take advantage of the content?
And that's exactly what we were
able to do with the screen saver.
And the screen saver was
extremely successful.
In the first six weeks
of release of the album,
over 100,000 users downloaded
and installed the screen saver.
The beauty is the
screen saver is tracked.
Another key benefit,
as Jon started to mention,
is the data collection
aspects of Enhanced CDs.
Jon mentioned the artist mailing list
capability and the amazing success
that Warner Brothers Records saw from
the Lord of the Rings soundtrack.
There's also the capability for labels
to create genre-segmented mailing lists.
Most labels have a "rock list"
or a "pop list" or whatnot,
and they'll use those mailing lists
to market new artists that don't
already have established fan bases.
That's a huge benefit.
ECD usage statistics are not
typically tracked currently,
but they're very easy to get because
the ECDs are built in Director,
and therefore you can connect directly
to a database from the user's machine,
assuming, of course,
that the user's online.
So you can actually track
the usage of the ECD,
how many people are actually using it,
the content popularity,
what content users are
actually using on the disk.
There's a host of other
tracking capabilities available.
We actually have a tracking
system that's very,
very powerful.
And we actually now have the ability
to tell you what countries people
are using the Enhanced CD from,
and in some cases,
even what DMAs people are
using the Enhanced CD from.
Additionally,
we can track the viral aspects
of a promotion and tell you the
send-to-a-friend ratio as far
as what the response rates are,
how many people are
doing it week-to-week,
timescale, etc.
directly from the Enhanced
Disk through our reporting technology.
And, of course, you can track much,
much more.
Another really key benefit that labels
really fail to take advantage of
typically is the cross-sell capability.
I mean, you have a disc that's
in the consumer's hand.
They're actually taking the time to
open the enhanced portion of the disc.
Why not take that time and offer them,
you know,
previous catalog from that artist?
You know, or offer them, you know,
opportunity to purchase an
artist's DVD or whatever is coming
out for that particular artist.
And if the Enhanced
CD is database powered,
then you can kind of update the
offers at any time you please.
There's no reason not to
take advantage of that.
Another key benefit that I was mentioning
a little bit beforehand is the viral
marketing capability of the Enhanced CD.
On the Meteora CD, for example,
we actually had send Meteora to
a friend right on the ECD itself.
So all the user had to do was enter their
email address and click send and it would
actually connect to our database system
obviously if they were online and we'd
send that user an email address saying,
hey,
Johnny wanted you to check out Meteora.
Go check it out.
Obviously,
word of mouth is especially for the jaded
consumer in that particular demographic.
Word of mouth is really the
best way to market to them.
The response rates as
you saw by the graph,
that's actually real data, is massive.
Thirty to sixty percent is typically
the response rate that we see from
typical viral marketing programs.
That includes email to a friend,
IM to a friend, and SMS to a friend.
Another key quote-unquote word of mouth,
well, not really,
is the official website toolkit.
This is something that we
actually included on the
Meteora Enhanced CD as well,
and it was extremely successful.
Well over 100,000 kids actually
accessed the toolkit in the first
two to three weeks of album release,
and were using it on their fan sites
because we had exclusive art on
there that we had not used previously
on other Linkin Park creations.
We also produced their website,
et cetera, et cetera.
And therefore,
we were actually able to tell
whether kids were actually using the
content on the Enhanced CD or not.
This is what the toolkit
actually looks like.
So the toolkit, typically,
when we produce them,
will contain the official
PR photos of the band,
official logos, the album artwork.
And then we also include
a host of webmastery.
We include a host of resources
such as how to build a website,
how to program HTML,
where to host a website for
free or for very low cost,
go GeoCities,
where to get a message board so that
fans can build their own communities
because fans really like to do that.
So another core benefit
of the Enhanced CD,
and I've mentioned it previously,
is obviously the database
connectivity ability.
And this has very,
very rarely been put to use.
In fact, I've not really seen an
Enhanced Disc that's really
well database connected.
But, you know, things like updating the
artist's news and tour schedules,
I mean, the reality is most labels that
we've talked to about this say,
"Well, who's going to update it?" Well,
someone's updating the artist's website,
so why not pipe it into the same
database that powers the website?
And therefore, you know,
you update one and kill
two birds with one stone.
So, you know, tour schedules,
buy links directly to Ticketmaster
when tour dates go on sale,
tour journals directly from the band,
and, you know, of course, much,
much more.
So why don't labels do these things?
Well, the first item is cost.
Obviously record labels are not doing
very well financially right now,
so they don't like to
spend a lot of money.
And the new media gets a good
chunk of change currently,
but they're trying to cut
costs every place they can,
and an ECD is an easy thing to cut.
It's an easy thing to skimp on.
It's, oh,
who cares about the Enhanced CD?
No one ever uses it anyway.
So that's really one of
the first things to go,
typically,
when a label is trying to cut costs.
Quite honestly,
the high cost of production tools has
an impact on the cost of ECDs as well.
Macromedia Director, for example,
you actually have to buy a PC license
and a Macintosh license in order
to produce hybrid Enhanced CDs.
So therefore, you're buying two copies of
the same program to produce
a typical Enhanced Disc,
and Director isn't cheap.
Another some of the concerns
are obviously the production
timelines and the QA procedure.
Enhanced CDs,
because they have to be mastered
and obviously duplicated
before they're sold at retail,
there's very,
very strict delivery times if the
label's going to meet their on-sale date.
Jon is often stuck working
all-nighters to meet crazy,
ridiculous deadlines.
We are too from the design side
and the development side because
we really don't have much time.
And because the Enhanced Disc has
to be produced so far in advance
of the actual album on sale,
as I said before, assets sometimes are
really hard to come by.
So we may not have the exclusive video
clip that we've been talking about for
three months when planning a given artist
release with the label New Media Head.
It just might not happen,
whether it's not edited or it's
not even shot yet or whatever.
It often does not occur.
Now I'm going to talk a little bit
about how the typical artists view ECDs.
Now the thing about my company
is that we actually work directly
with the artists as well.
So oftentimes artists will ask us about
the Enhanced Disc or what's going on
with the new media promotion and whatnot.
So this is kind of how the artists
currently look at Enhanced Disc.
First I'm going to start with what should
be the artist's benefits of Enhanced
Disc and obviously rarely occurs.
Key benefit is fan
relationship management.
And that's very similar to
customer relationship management
because the person who buys
your disc is your customer.
So things like an official artist
fan club link and potentially
giving them discounts to the
official artist fan club,
links to the public community so that
fans can interact with other fans,
direct communication links with the
artist by way of up-to-date artist news,
the tour schedule,
the ability to offer exclusive
contests and updates through that
suppose a database connection.
Additionally,
you have a great opportunity if
you're an artist to grow your
street team or your E-team.
Now, typically a street team and an
E-team is like a three-month deal.
You know,
it's totally front loaded at the
beginning of a campaign or it will kind
of go up and down with single cycles.
And, you know, but I genuinely think that
especially for an E-team,
you know, street team is typically a
fixed size because of cost,
et cetera, et cetera.
So if you're an artist, you know,
you're going to have to buy
a lot of stuff for that.
So, you know, you're going to have to get
And if you're going to be
a fan of your street team,
you're going to have to buy
a lot of stuff for that.
And, you know, you can't just buy a whole
bunch of stuff for the E-team.
You can't just buy a bunch of
stuff for your street team.
You can't just buy a bunch
of stuff for your E-team.
So there's no reason to not buy
a bunch of stuff for your E-team.
And there's no reason to not buy
If you're an artist,
you're going to have Very,
very successful.
This is actually a screen of the
Linkin Park Enhanced CD again.
This is actually the page where
we actually were marketing
Linkin Park's official fan club,
which is called the LP Underground.
Now the LP Underground has literally
tens of thousands of members
who are paying to join the club,
and through the Enhanced Disc we
actually had thousands of sign-ups.
And the Linkin Park Disc came
out in March of this year.
So it's actually been very,
very successful as a kind of
a cross-sell with the consumer
through the Enhanced Disc.
Other benefits, as I mentioned before,
of course,
are the viral marketing capabilities.
They're huge.
There's no reason not to do it.
It's kind of like free marketing.
It's the consumer marketing
on the artist's behalf.
And who else better to market for you?
There's no reason not to do that.
As I said before,
the cross-sell potential for artists
is even bigger than the labels.
Typically,
labels don't really get into the artist's
merchandise and all that kind of stuff,
or the fan clubs.
Of course, that's changing as the
industry continues to evolve.
The labels are going to have more and
more reason to cross-sell merchandise
and fan club memberships through an ECD.
The merchandise is huge for an artist
to be able to sell their merchandise or
offer their merchandise directly from
the Enhanced Disc by way of Weblink,
of course.
In future,
it would be really cool to actually
be able to pipe updates as far
as new merchandise that goes on
sale or exclusive merchandise to
fans who actually bought the disc,
etc., etc., etc.
I mean,
there's a million things you can do.
Unfortunately, it never gets done.
So what are some of the artists'
concerns with Enhanced Discs?
Well, artists are really concerned about
the poor production by the label.
There have been several instances where
we've actually had to recreate Enhanced
CDs after the initial shipment because we
found the label found later or the artist
found after the fact that the Enhanced
CD quite honestly didn't even function.
And that's incredibly damaging because
You damage your fan relations with
a poorly produced enhanced CD.
This is your opportunity
to really communicate with
your fans on a direct basis.
And if you produce a damaged
ECD that's not at the par of the
music on the enhanced disc or the
album packaging or everything else
that everyone at the label and on
the artist side and the management
company works so hard to produce,
then the consumers
oftentimes feel screwed.
What's on this enhanced disc?
Why is there a sticker on this enhanced
CD package that says I have exclusive
content when I can't even access it?
And that also reduces perceived
value of the ECD compared to
similar products in a very,
very crowded marketplace.
So if you're on label X and you're
a rock band and label Y's rock
band has a better enhanced disc and
obviously things are similar as far
as radio play and everything else,
and there are all the other
bazillion variables that go
into a typical artist campaign,
then having a poor enhanced
disc is kind of like having
a poor package or whatever.
It's not a real,
it reduces the perceived value
directly and it's all subconscious
but it actually has an impact.
and of course potential inability to
grow the mailing list and all that other
stuff that can be caused by rushed or
poor production on behalf of the label.
Now I'm going to discuss briefly
how consumers view Enhanced CDs both
currently and how they should.
The current view of Enhanced
CDs by consumers is that they
are very cheaply produced.
The brand of ECD, you know,
every CD that you buy that's
enhanced has that little ECD logo.
At least in my opinion, has been very,
the value of that brand has been
very sharply produced because
most of the ECDs that are produced
are quite honestly terrible.
And they meet very low standards.
They lack any real content.
And sometimes they don't even work.
So they're of course of
limited value to the consumer.
And therefore consumers at this point,
sometimes they don't even bother putting
them in because there's no point.
You know,
it's either not going to work or
it's going to be the music video
that I've seen on MTV 5,000 times.
So there's no point.
How consumers should view ECDs is
obviously that they offer significant
additional value without added cost.
If you go to Best Buy and you
buy an album for $9.99 and it
has an enhanced disc portion,
then there should be additional
value on that enhanced disc.
Access to exclusive collectible
content such as AIM icons that are
specific for the Enhanced Disc,
desktop wallpaper,
the screensaver technology kind
of stuff that I showed you,
active desktops, desk sites,
all those sort of creative
elements are very,
very exciting to a consumer.
And many record labels that have
taken the time to produce high quality
Enhanced Discs have actually seen
very positive results from those added
value additions to the Enhanced Disc.
The ability to communicate
with other fans,
that's what fans really want.
They want to find
like-minded souls online.
And the ability to communicate
via direct links to the artist
community or whatnot are incredibly
important for the consumer.
And of course the ability to
stay up to date on how the,
you know,
what's new in the world of the artist,
latest news and tours and ticket
sales and all that kind of cool stuff.
So now what is the
future of Enhanced Discs?
Well, the future is interesting.
It really depends on how much
effort labels really want
to put into Enhanced Discs.
If the current trend continues,
then Enhanced Discs are
going to fade away as a fad,
you know, part of the multimedia craze of
producing CD-ROMs and they're really,
quite honestly,
probably going to go away.
But, you know,
it's really a great opportunity,
as I said, for Enhanced Discs to be,
you know,
to be of tremendous value to the
artist and the label through,
you know,
all the things that I've discussed
and all the things that Jon discussed.
Additionally, there are two new major
audio formats on the horizon.
There's SACD and there's DVD audio.
And those two formats are going to
obviously play in as well as far as
physical shipment of audio is concerned.
So labels should really take the time
now to learn more about their consumers
and involve them in ways that they really
won't be able to when the digital music
revolution is really fully complete.
We have things like Apple's
amazing new music store which
enable consumers to buy music.
And there's no enhanced portion
to buying a protected file.
There's no,
it's just the audio straight and
it's cheaper than buying a disc.
So eventually you're going
to run out of time where,
you know, eventually, you know,
obviously, you know,
you're going to have to buy a disc.
But consumers will only buy
music through digital channels.
So the time is fast coming where enhanced
discs will probably be obsolete as
digital music continues to evolve.
So therefore,
now is the time to really take
advantage of the medium as consumers
are still buying hundreds and hundreds
of millions of CDs worldwide to really
find out more about the consumer,
learn more about their buying habits,
and give them access to real
exclusive content that they
will not be able to access.
When buying a 99 cent
downloadable audio track.
Additionally,
through all the tracking capabilities
that Enhanced CDs can offer potentially,
you can really turn the media
promotion into a science.
There's no reason not to do it.
If you can track everything from the
website traffic to the player traffic
to the enhanced disc traffic and
compare it to SoundScan and compare
it to DBS and compare it to MediaBase
and do all the correlative cool
stuff that labels really should be
able to do and aren't really doing,
Enhanced CDs are a really core facet.
They're a really cool,
really core variable as far as
the new media campaign as a whole.
So, you know,
it's really a shame that labels
really aren't taking full
advantage of them currently.
So now I would like to take
questions from the floor and I think
Glenn is going to say something.
Nice.
Something nice?
Yeah.
No, thanks.
Naveen, that was awesome.
Thank you.
No problem.
In working with Jon and Naveen
and the labels for quite a while,
the QuickTime team is really
familiar with Enhanced CDs.
And at first pass,
some of the things up on the screen
there looked kind of depressing.
But I really feel like this is a
huge opportunity for developers.
Developers on just the delivery
of media through the Enhanced CD,
and probably more importantly,
the tools for creation as well
as all the tools for tracking.
There's a lot of incredible success.
You know, you would know better about
the correlation between,
let's see, the largest selling CD last
year was Lincoln Park Meteora.
So the intelligence behind the
marketing plan and the delivery,
hybrid theory.
Sorry, it should be Meteora.
Hopefully.
It will be.
That's the new record.
So if you'd like to ask any questions,
please use the microphones,
introduce yourself,
and thanks to our speakers again.